Hello there. this seemed the best way to reach you as you said you check git more often then anything.

sorry for not letting you know but I am usually off while summer break. That however is over now so I am back.
Basically when I first suggested to work on this I had a list with changes that many approved. 
I reached out to all active players and asked for their consent to some changes I had in mind and 
also let them suggest what else they woudl want to see.

Not that is matters but these are all the players I talked to:
paso, kira, caritas, hay207, ZEN-CAT, wilsonso, noella, amikrop, gnida/sunrise/sunset, hemingway, poipoi, sathyre, 
NanRoig, clmates, khim, monte, noobs, time-2-die/t2d, Igh/Aquamarin, flynnk, Mee,  AMMOeinser, iScrub, nelaima, 
AustinTheTerrible, xach810, SkinkSlipper, Ado64, Karofaar, Mako, MrPuhh, Zeratul, Elvandin, McCallister, Tanzo, 
Groguet, aksche, Roylink6 , KeyofDestiny17, Evernoob, mudfoot, JoeSGriffith, Wrykolakas

Now that some time passed, I had a chance to review that list of changes I and the others came up with and 
decided that most of them were either unrealistic or unnecessary. 
Hence I am gonna only suggest who are actually doable and realistic.




(1.1) Dunefolk Rework
The reason I got in touch you in the first place. I saw that other players in forum already expressed their thoughts on this.
I do not know if you already started working on this something I could do myself code-wise.
Will change MULTIPLAYER_SIDE_THE_EMPIRE , FACTION_VARIABLE_THE_EMPIRE , RANDOM_LEADERS_EMPIRE , IMG_EMPIRE accordingly in The_Emprie.cfg 

(1.2) Empire as Enemy
Do not know how to do that, but should be easy for you.

(1.3) Dunefolk and other factions 
Just as other factions are featured at least two times in faction pairs, it is considerable to not have just a single Dunefolk WC Pair,
but at least two. This way Dunefolk would feel more integrated as a whole in the mod. 
Which faction are to be paired up with Dunefolk can be open for discussion on the thread until the other steps were done.
Defining new faction pairs should be something I should be able to do on my own.




(2.1) Fixing The Cult
Dunefolk is currently in a recruitment pair/pattern of the Loy/Undead alliance which is very questionable and immersion breaking.
An alterative should be found. Suggestion would be posted in thread for discussion before execution.

(2.2) Revise other Alliances
Other factions too have odd but not balance breaking  recrutment patterns. 
I'd have to go through all of them I could comment on this further. 
It is possible that all remains unchanged but there was something off putting somewhere.
If there turns out to be something like that, Suggestion would be posted in thread for discussion before execution.

(2.3) Creating new Alliances
If we do a larger scale of update, it is considareable to create new alliances as well such as Orc/Dwarf and Drake/Loy.
I would have to come up with balanced recruitmen pattern for them which would have to be discussed in forums thoroughly.
Steps (2.1) to (2.3) is somethign I would prodide the code for myself.



(3) New Items
There are still unexplored possibilities for new items with unique bonuses. It is important to maintain balance though.
There are still some training bonuses that could be turned into items as well. 
Other items could be inspired by ageless abilitie such as "ranged backstab" or "precision". 
Item concept that could be considered to ahve too strong of buffs could now feature debuffs as well.
Stronger (new) items could be dropped only by AI and will not appear in the item list.
There are many possibilities, I still would need to brainstorm a bit and 
this would too require time to be discussed on the threads as well.
Since I am spriting, I should be able to do new icons for new items if requiered.
Here is an example of a new simple, balanced item:

Name: Provisions
Icon: images/items/leather-bag
+ 4 heal
+ 4 regen   (with the new dunefolk, +4 regen is featured in mainline as well)

I too should be able to code the items themselves, not sure if I am able to implement them though. 
If not I will request help.




(4) 
There are ways to expand the basic trainings in a balanced matter without adding a 4th Level (which I do not intend to do).
This step is not necessary, but it could be interesting to have at least one or two new abilities to each. 
If I come up with something, I will post them on the thread. If not, we just leave it.
Coding-wise this one should be easy.




(5) New Heros/Commanders/Enemies
There are many mainline unit campaign units that could be introduce as WC II already feature campaign units as heros.
To give an example, Elvish Civilian could be legendary/skilled lv0 Hero only dropable from map bonueses.
Others could be:

Dwarfs:
Lv1 Outcast
Lv1 Rogue Mage
Lv1 Annalist

Undead:
Lv1 Apprentice Mage

Orcs:
Lv1 Orcish Shaman

Same goes for AI, it could get more units then we as players but not as recruits, 
just as heroes (units with items to drop) or Commanders.

Dwarfs:
Lv2 Wesfolk Lady, Lv3 Wesfolk Leader
Lv2 Shadow Mage, Lv3 Shadow Lord
Lv2 Witness, Lv3 Loremaster

Orcs:
Lv2 Novice Orcish Shaman, Lv3 Elder Orcish Shaman
Lv2 Nightblade

Loayalists:
Lv2 Infantry Lieutenant, Lv3 Infantry Commander
Lv2 Human Princess, Lv3 Human Battleprincess

Undead:
Lv2 Apprentice Necromancer, Lv3 Dark Mage
Lv2 Vampire Lady 
Lv2 Familiar
Lv2 Spider Lich
Lv2 Flesh Golem

This is some of the more complete list and I only considered fully animated unit lines. 
Creating/Copieng existing untis for me is not a problem but I wouldn't know how to properly implement them in the right place.
Seeing new units thought would really refreshing I suppose.



(6.1)Chocoboner 
That unit was properly one of the most recently added to Wc II. But personally I think it was added in the wrong place.
Instead of letting it lv up fromt the walking corpse, we could use it as an extra unit as suggested in (5) and either introduce
existing sprites for the walking corpse lv up (which are animate and of good quality) or limit its lv up to lv1 as normal.

(6.2) Gobiln Rider
Jumping from Goblin Spear to Pillager seems also a bit off, though not as much as the Chocoboner. 
There are alternatives of fixing this as well.

Both (6.1) and (6.2) are easy fixes but do not seem 100% necessary. It's just if we do all this then we can do it right.


(7)Fishes
One big and re-occuring complain is the droping of mermaids and nagas as heros in bad places. 
Removing them from the hero list would be too of an agressive solution. 
Instead of that, we could make it a condition that it drops only in water/swamp villages. 
This way player has a chance to at least get away with it if is not in a good posistion.
I however would not know how to code this though.

(8)
This one is more of a personal request, but if it is possible, removing the dialog when obserwing
would increase the game flow so much more ... Ovservers have to click dozen of times just to watch a game.
And WC II is very popular, so there are many observers. I don't know how difficult this would be if it wouldn't be too much
of a hustle, then it would be welcome change

(9)
Considering that you are considering to add another difficulty level, 
increasin the castle size from map 5+ is kind of neccessary.
Good players will even reach 500g + on nightmare and the castle size is just no big enough to get all your recruits.
At the same time you could say that it limits your recruitment and hence raises the difficutly, but it rather limits your
strategies then actively raising difficulty, since you have to decide on which recruits/recalls you have to give up on.
I think I could code this as well, but I wouldn't want to mess with map gen.




This all seems a lot but actually most of them could be done fast and considering that (I think) I can do most of them on my own,
your work load is not that high. Before start working on this, I will go formal post on the forums for all the changes I made 
with exact changes for everything. This way everything can be discussed properly.


Let me know what you approve of and what you don't approve.


I hope this way of contacting you is not too inconvenient. I never really worked with git much. 
So this seemed the easiest way to reach out to you.


Cheers. PS: sent you the same message on forum as well.







